next addressing the high turnover rate
among public schoolteachers john tulenko
of learning matters television which
produces reports for the NewsHour looks
at a Boston School where the teachers
have taken charge for more than 20 years
Susan slider loved being a public school
teacher but starting around 2001 with
passage of the education law known as No
Child Left Behind her feelings began to
change I started to feel deadened I felt
like I'd lost inspiration I wasn't able
to teach in the way that I have learned
how to teach her child centered approach
fell out of favor as testing and
accountability became the new buzzwords
almost like a tsunami of data collection
frenzy such a shift you have to do this
because we want this number and we want
this result on the test
gradually her frustrations grew and last
March slider quit I felt I got to to a
point where I was feeling like I was
contributing to to unnecessary and I
didn't want to do that anymore
I couldn't keep teaching and and hold on
to any integrity this is an incredibly
hard time to be a teacher I really feel
very very badly for those who are in the
classroom every single day I don't think
their work is respected or appreciated
and I think too often they feel dictated
to to education professor Tony Wagner of
Harvard University the top-down climate
in many public schools is contributing
to an exodus of teachers some eight
percent more than 200,000 quit each year
and a national survey found
dissatisfaction with the job has
increased from 40 percent four years ago
to nearly 60 percent today but rather
than quit some teachers are taking back
their classrooms and what are called
teacher led schools like Mission Hill
School in Boston Massachusetts Kathy
D'Andrea
teaches kindergarten where Democratic
not just in theory but in practice
people talking about
thing that comes down the pike is a
conversation right I can say this is how
I'm feeling this is what's happening so
what I want to do is strategize mission
Hill is one of about 70 teacher-led
schools that have emerged around the
country in recent years some of them
choose to operate without a school
principal here they have one but the
jobs different when you have a decision
to make in this school do you get the
final word I don't get the final word
principal Illig avens who prefers to be
called lead teacher doesn't even get the
traditional private office because
that's really a joint effort I don't
have all the skills all the background
all the talent that this group has two
three four heads are better than one
yeah in line with that thinking all
decisions curriculum budget hiring are
voted on by the entire staff nothing
goes forward until everyone agrees when
we make decisions we have a raise of
hands so five you strongly agree for you
you agree you have some reservations but
you can live with it but if you put a
one you disagree and we stop we don't go
on until everyone can say they have a
fiver forth with this Authority teachers
decide the look and feel of their
classrooms there's lots of low lighting
and soothing music arts and crafts are
everywhere all part of Mission Hills
personality teacher Gennaro Williams
we're not gonna use a packaged
curriculum we're gonna use students
voices to shape our curriculum that
we're gonna shape our curriculum around
their interests I think in most other
schools it's a lot of you will follow
this you must follow this and there's
never any room to breathe but even those
who favor giving teachers more say have
reservations Tony Wagner too often I
think the teaching profession is is a
kind of heads down get the job done you
know focus on the kids in front of you
do what's required without having the
time to sort of look around and reflect
how is the world changing how is what
I'm teaching today
different from what I taught 10 or 20
years ago how does it need to be
different teachers here like this model
so much there's very little turnover but
it has its drawbacks when it comes to
making hard decisions with everyone
voting and consensus required what
happens if you can't agree in the end we
get someone to help us we talk and talk
and talk and it could take months to
decide ok perfectly to my next question
raise your hand if you agree with the
statement in this school we spend too
much time talking and too little time
deciding in this school we don't talk
and talk and talk and things don't
happen we talk and talk and talk so
things happen some people might find
that a very frustrating way to work
I think it's an essential thing every
time there is a situation when we're in
disagreement and we talk and talk and
talk until we are in agreement it
uncovers so many things often many
misconceptions or lack of trust or
whatever things poisonous things that
can grow mm-hm in a community it doesn't
happen here your pattern does putting
teachers in charge result in students
doing better here forty percent of the
students are proficient in English in
math twenty-six percent that's on par
with the rest of the district but still
low the public looks at your test scores
and says it's not working how do you
respond I think no school no child and
no teacher should be evaluated on one
slice of the puzzle so what else do you
look at come see it see the work right
ask teachers and schools to put together
portfolios of students work so that you
can see their progress but what we don't
do is change what we do so that we can
only do better on this test you have to
trust that the people who are closest to
the child are working in a capacity of
excellence you have to trust that they
know children well and are taking
children where they need to go
but the conundrum is this must student
performance improve before teachers can
be trusted or can we trust that greater
independence for teachers will result in
higher performance Tony Wagner favors
the hands-off approach but not until we
follow the lead of higher performing
countries like Finland that do far more
to prepare teachers for the job
Finland said we've got to better prepare
our teachers starting 35 years ago they
closed down 80% of the teacher
preparation programs so the motto in
Finland today is trust through
professionalism not blind trust not
trust no matter what it is that we have
prepared you to be extraordinary
professionals now we trust you to be the
professionals we've trained you to be
here in this country where many students
fall behind it's unlikely districts will
simply hand teachers the keys to schools
Wagner's train and trust approach may be
the best way to improve their
satisfaction